e
go ahead and turn me on there we go
yeah we'll go ahead and call the special
school board meeting for Monday March
the 25th to order um Dr Jones you have
any names no sir no sir Jones I have one
I need a roll call okay roll call hold
on hold
on previous student at Dan River uh
class of 2009 passed away from cancer
last night um Britney
Gibson okay thank you and Dr Jones one
additional Mr Junior P our Le mechanic
transp Department lost his
father thank you thank I'd like to pray
for the family of Dewey Wayne Cook he
passed away this weekend and Charlotte
but if anybody's been around baseball he
um he's graduate of George Washington
but he's been involved with County ball
for years and years and years Wayne Cook
Wayne
Cook need do a roll call real quick
please Mr Fitzgerald pres Mr Henderson
presid M me pres Mr Ms here Mr Moon here
Mr Shields pres Mr dogs here Mr
Henderson you mind doing invocation
pleas be glad to thank
you let's pray father we come to you
tonight we're asking for wisdom we're
asking for patience we're asking the
knowledge Lord to do that which is right
we're going to be presented with a with
a budget Lord and I pray that uh we'll
do exactly what needs to be done thank
you for those who have worked on it so
hard so diligently and father we just
pray that with all your blessings upon
them Father we also lift up those those
who have lost loved ones we know that
they're bed and they need condolences
father we pray for that for those that
lay on the beds of Affliction Lord we
lift those Folks up to you you know who
they are and we may not know them all by
name for father you do know so we ask
your blessings upon them now Lord as we
go through this meeting like I said
please grant us wisdom to do that which
is right what in Christ's name we pray
and ask amen
amen of the United States
the stands
Nation indivisible liy and justice for
all okay Dr Jones do you have any
additions to the agenda no sir I have a
motion to approve agenda as is then I
make a motion we approve the agenda is
presented second okay we have a motion
and the second roll call please Mr
Fitzgerald yes Mr Henderson yes M mer Mr
Ms yes yes Mr Moon yes Mr Shields yes Mr
dos
yes um I think y'all just came in late
did y'all want to sign up to speak you
didn't
okay is anybody else that just came in
want to sign up to
speak I'll give you a minute to do
so this may is any names on there no
names okay I'm all right I'm I'm going
to go ahead and open the public
hearing at
603 and and any names any names on the
sign
up
none
okay okay there are no names on a sign
up to speak so at this time I will close
the public hearing at 6:03
three okay the next item on our agenda
is the discussion of the
20 oh yeah okay give me do I have a
motion to close it so I had to do
that I didn't hear you do I need a
motion she said I need a motion to close
the public hearing I'll give you a
motion second
second roll call Mr fitgerald yes Mr
Henderson yes M mck yes Mr Mills yes yes
Mr Moon yes Mr sh yes Mr D yes now we'll
move on to the discussion of the 2425
school budget related item if you want
to make any comments on it where we at
right this minute you I would like to
make a comment or two uh we just
received a a c tool of some sort from
the state department regarding the U the
budget from General Assembly we're
looking at that today we will have that
information for you later U but I'd like
to you ought to recall looking back over
this year we worked this year with 32
vacant teaching positions that we had to
feel with substitutes retired teachers
or we had to combine classes or had to
ask teachers to teach extra periods um
it's I think it's important for the the
profession uh as far as encouraging our
young people to go into the field of
Education you know we're seeing a
teacher shortage Across the Nation and
we're expc in here in Pennsylvania
county it used to be that we were we we
would find hard to find Math and Science
teachers today it's hard to find any
type of teacher so I think it's so
important that we provide a 3% cost of
living adjustment for our our staff this
year our teachers this year just to keep
us competitive with other counties that
surround us that touch us but also
across the state and the nation but we
want to lure our graduates our high
school graduates back here and we surely
want to encourage them to be be teachers
so I think that's the big ask in this
budget is to be sure that we provide the
increase for for staff to be sure that
we're competitive with surrounding
surrounding divisions if you look our
salaries you know are really maybe not
up to par with some of our the counties
that touch us so that's just a concern
Mr dos okay anybody else have any
comments questions
m w I have in front of me the the
budgets from the previous years if
you'll pull your sheet I want to make
sure I'm reading this correct and don't
say anything
wrong so a
2122 amended budget was
116,000 in a little bit right and as we
come across 22
23 the final budget was 128 is that I'm
read that right and then the 2324
amended budget was 140 140
million this year's propo proposed
budget is 116
m297 th000 is $24 million less than last
year's budget that's correct right okay
for now for now well be amended
carryover which will be much larger than
normal
because of the
all right but but I guess what I wanted
to say is from from our our schools
perspect perspective to the
county we're at the same level this year
as we were 2021
2022 at $116 million that's we pretty
much stayed flat for that now I know it
will change I know it will
change um and and depending on what the
state finally approves yes sir but can I
make just one comment because you you
need to realize that during that time
frame there was a lot of federal money
car's money um the arpa money scap money
lots of additional monies outside of
operations and I get and I understand
that but and that final budget too for
2122 would have had a fair Fairly large
carryover from from that year before as
well but I guess the point I'm trying to
make is we really are not increasing it
as we've gone along these last few years
we trying to hold as much as we can I
think that's what's important that that
the citizens of the county understand
yes sir um so having said that you know
we we know that this year the composite
index changed for the county um the the
state's formula says that Pennsylvania
county is capable of paying more than
they did previous two years years it's
impacted the Board of Supervisors and
and funding for us that's required by
law yes um so I know citizens are going
to see a probably an increase from them
and it's because of what the state did
to them that's going to that hurt them
yes sir to have to to give us the money
but it's not because we getting all of
these extra funds it's just because of
the the way the composite index works
and the requirement for local
government is that a Fair statement yes
sir it is okay I think it's important
that people realize that um because when
you see a bunch of numbers it's hard
it's hard for me to understand it and i'
I've dealt with it a long time so is
there anything else that that has come
to you since the last time we talked
it's no nothing to add right now this is
um obviously still our proposed budget
um I expect a lot of changes in that
before we actually have an approved
budget by the state level so
well I do know that the house and and
Senate did send a budget to the governor
and he has publicly stated he's not
going to support it so exactly um we we
back to waiting wait and see wait and
see I hope it's not September like it
will I do have a question for her okay I
heard you said that our index has they
figur we can pay more money now in the
county mhm and yet
unemploy not unemployment retirement is
going up where are they calculating we
getting this extra money from so that is
a Formula it's based on our real estate
on our population on our income it's
it's quite a number of um factors that
go into that formula that the state uses
to calculate that so and it Compares
our data our situation with every other
County
in Virginia in Virginia and you have one
pot of money and by percentage they divy
that pot of money out using the
composite index to each locality so our
Composite Index number went up so the
higher it is the more a locality
locality pays so ours went up about what
point 1 point something per it was
2511 and now it's
2642 I think so it's going up a little
bit more than 1% there so the easiest
way to understand that is is for every
dollar the state's going to give us 74
cents and the Count's got to come up
with 26 Cents
basically I understand what you're
saying but I just
question you know our retirees are going
up and they living off of s k i I know
that it it it's it doesn't seem fair it
doesn't it does so I just it doesn't
seem fair that the city of danville's
composite index went down and ours went
up right but it's a calculation and you
know it's based on data two years ago
though right so it's it's it should
change yeah okay it's every two years
it's every two years that they update
the number so okay thank you and we did
call the state department on this when
it came out and we questioned state
department they went back through our
numbers again and they said they verify
that's where was they said you're right
okay
okay thank you m Worley anybody else
have any
questions
anybody you also have before
you the this the budget that's the um
this you also have the school nutrition
budget um for this coming year is at
6,478 th000
um I think we need to pass each one of
these correct we ready to do that so at
this time we need a motion to approve
both budgets I guess we can do one at a
time the first one would be the
24 we do the same time okay then we'll
do both of them the first one is our
proposed budget of 116 M 297,000
635 and a nutrition budget at$
6,478 ,000 do we have a motion to
approve those I make a motion we approve
both of the numbers as
presented second any discussion now on
any of
these roll call please Mr Fitzgerald yes
Mr Henderson yes M marck yes Mr Mills
yes Mr Moon yes Mr Shields yes Mr do yes
thank you I want thank Dr Jones and M
Worley and all of their staff Mr mayew
for putting all of this together I know
it's a Monumental task to go through all
of those when you have multiple budgets
and you have to go through what each one
means to to us and how we can spend the
funds so thank You' all for your hard
work I do appreciate it I know it's some
more to come um and we we'll cross that
bridge when we get to it anybody have
anything else I was going to just ask
may have mentioned it is it any
projected date when the budget would
come out I mean is it like something
it's going to be April or May that we
know it's this time or
just April
1 okay if a governor the governor has to
respond by
April and then the
assembly they will reconvene on April
17th to address his amendments changes V
or whatever how long they I'm not sure I
don't think long
okay thanks C hopefully by mid April mid
late April we hopefully we'll have some
okay anybody have anything else uh M do
one other thing reason I raised that
question citizens in the county think
that we are
raising uh ability to pay or whatever
they need to understand that it's not us
it's the general assembly that is
dictating to us
what we are able to
pay and I think a lot of the citizens
don't realize that that's right as I
just showed you we flat we have we
asking same budget right basically that
we had back in 21 so okay that the
increases is not coming from us it's
it's really coming from the general
assembly and what they believe the
county has the ability to pay right may
I share some additional so the average
amount of required local effort uh that
divisions pay based on two years ago
data is 72% that's the average of What
divisions pay um we are paying we're
we're looking at
6% above s soq or stand of or what the
standards of quality require and so
we're we're we're there were 13
divisions that funded their school
divisions at 25% or lower of required
local effort and we were one of those
and we we were at the time between six
and probably three or 6 and 0% so we
just go over that threshold by just a
small amount comparatively when you look
at other divisions across across the
state anyone
else I have a motion to
adjourn motion to
adjourn second
roll call Mr fitgerald yes Mr Henderson
yes m m yes Mr Ms yes Mr Moon yes Mr sh
yes Mr yes okay
Briand